Take Maslow’s hierarchy of needs
and you apply it to design in an ethical manner
so at its base, at its very base
we need to build things that are decentralised
private, open, and interoperable
accessible, so not just fitting the needs of
able-bodied white men
Right?
Diversity is so important in what we do
If we do not have diversity in these communities
that are tackling this problem
then we have already lost
The only way to design solutions
for a diverse audience, for a diverse
citizenship, is to have
diverse groups designing for themselves
Not studying another group
not studying the other, not being colonialist
in their approach, but having
diverse groups that design for themselves
diversity is not a charity
diversity is competitive advantage
it is one that we need to start taking advantage of
So, we build things that respect human rights
but we don’t stop there
then we go on, we build things that are functional
and convenient and reliable
because, again, it’s about respect
this time it’s about respecting human effort
but we don’t stop there
we build things that are delightful
because that is about respecting human experience
and that’s very important, that’s what we overlook
in the Free and Open Source world a lot of the time
We have to respect human experience as well
if you think about it, experiences are all we have in life
and then we die
Whether those are experiences with people
or with objects
they are like the grains of sand in the
hourglass of your life
each one of them deserves respect
our respect, and it’s a huge responsibility
on the part of those of us who are building these solutions
to respect the experiences, to respect those grains of sand
to respect the lives of the people we are building for
and this is where we fail though, at the very beginning,
in mainstream technology that is where we fail
because we’re building things that do not respect human rights
and when you do that, you’re not building things
for people, you’re building things on the backs
of people
So that’s the Ethical Design Manifesto
We released it at the end of last year
and my little wins every day
are getting things like this:
pictures showing a design firm
where someone’s printed it out and actually remixed their own copy
because they didn’t like that mine was all grey
and they said let’s remix it, put some colours in there
And hearing from them, that this has helped them
when they were negotiating a project with a client
it helped the person at this agency
to not work on a project
they went to their boss and said "Look…
it violates that, and I’m not happy working on this
project that we have as a client agency"
Which takes, you know, a spine, it really does
Seeing these put up in different agencies
around the world is just lovely
I think this is from Philips in Amsterdam…
I got an email from two researchers who said
"we want to use this as a basis for a talk
that we want to give, a paper that we want to write"
saying "it made us reflect on the methods and practices
we use within the Human Computer Interaction community
and how can we translate that?"
Just yesterday, on Twitter, I got this:
Clemens Schuster from the consultancy Hofrat Suess
"Thanks once again for putting forward the ethical design manifesto
it was so helpful today within a discussion with a
high policy maker at EU in Brussels"
We need these simple, easy-to-understand
accessible frameworks in order to make the case
At its core, the issues we’re talking about are not complex
they’re very simple, they come back to basics,
the very basics of philosophy, before it was made into
an academic pursuit
How shall we live? What is good?
These are very basic things,
What are the rights of a person?